# cathyjf/SteamSkipForceInputAppIdDll

This respository builds a DLL that, when loaded into the address space of a
process, prevents that process from using ShellExecute{A,W} to invoke the
`steam://forceinputappid` endpoint. Building the project generates both a
32-bit and 64-bit version of the DLL.

The DLLs generated by this project are useful because they help work around
a bug in [SpecialK](https://github.com/SpecialKO/SpecialK). Specifically, for
some people who use Steam Input, SpecialK's invocation of the
`steam://forceinputappid` endpoint causes at least two strange behaviors:
1. The directional inputs from a controller no longer have any effect on the
   Steam Overlay; and
2. After a game closes, directional inputs from a controller no longer have any
   effect in Steam's Big Picture Mode.

To resolve these issues, the SteamSkipForceInputAppIdDll{32,64}.dll file
intercepts calls to ShellExecute{A,W} to block SpecialK from invoking the
`steam://forceinputappid` endpoint.

This project accomplishes a similar effect as a
[pull request](https://github.com/SpecialKO/SpecialK/pull/1) that I submitted to
the SpecialK repository some time ago. Unfortunately, no action has been taken
on that pull request. Using the DLLs built from this repository allows you to
benefit from this fix without having to build a custom version of SpecialK.

## Usage with SpecialK

Add a section like this to a SpecialK configuration file:

```ini
[Import.SteamSkipForceInputAppId64]
Architecture=x64
Role=ThirdParty
When=Early
Filename=C:\Users\Cathy\Documents\My Mods\SteamSkipForceInputAppIdDll\SteamSkipForceInputAppIdDll64.dll

[Import.SteamSkipForceInputAppId32]
Architecture=Win32
Role=ThirdParty
When=Early
Filename=C:\Users\Cathy\Documents\My Mods\SteamSkipForceInputAppIdDll\SteamSkipForceInputAppIdDll32.dll
```

If you want these settings to apply whenever SpecialK is injected using
`dxgi.dll`, you could add the above text to `master_dxgi.ini` in the
`SpecialK\Global` directory.

## Licensing

### License for cathyjf/SteamSkipForceInputAppIdDll
This SteamSkipForceInputAppIdDll program was written by [Cathy J. Fitzpatrick](https://github.com/cathyjf).
Copyright 2022 Cathy J. Fitzpatrick.

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program (see `LICENSE.txt`). If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

### License for microsoft/detours
This SteamSkipForceInputAppIdDll program incorporates the `microsoft/detours`
project. The `microsoft/detours` project was released by its author (Microsoft)
under the following license:

> Copyright (c) Microsoft Corporation
>
> All rights reserved.
>
> MIT License
>
>Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
>this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
>the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
>use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
>of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do
>so, subject to the following conditions:
>
>The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
>copies or substantial portions of the Software.
>
>THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED *AS IS*, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
>IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
>FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
>AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
>LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
>OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
>SOFTWARE.
